**INTRODUCTION**

Myself Malik I'm working as a DevOps Engineer at Cognizant and my payroll is with Textcode technologies and i have total 4+ years of experience,in that i've devops relevant experience is approx. 3 years , and my day-to-day activities includes Developing various Kubernetes Objects like Pods, Replica Sets, Deploypment, Daemon Set,State full Set, Services, Persistent Volumes, Secrets, Configmaps and Performed all day-to-day GIT support for Continuous Development.
In addition to this I am Responsible for maintaining Central repositories like setup projects, giving permissions, creating Branches and protecting them as per the need and helping with the merge requests in GitHub.
Set up EKS cluster from scratch using eksctl to various environment like dev stage and prod.
Experience in Docker installation and image setup. Creating custom image from a Dockerfile.

Experience in setting up Monitoring &Alerting process using Prometheus, Grafana to monitor Kubernetes Cluster.
Good experience in implementing CI/CD Pipelines for Automating Development, Testingand Deployment process using Jenkins Pipeline.
In my organisation i'm responsible for maintaining CI/CD pipeline, to achieve that i used an orchestrator called jenkins, apart from this i have worked on tools like git,jira,docker,k8s,terraform, ansible, prometheus and grafana.

For saas(software as a service) i used AWS, In AWS i worked on ec2,vpc,s3,Route-53,IAM,EKS,ECR,RDS etc

Coming to my daily activities, my work is based on the ticketing system whenever there's a ticket arises i.e; developers,testers,operations etc they have any issue i try to solve it as per the priority of the issue.

I have a experience of writing dockerfile,docker-compose for microservices of the docker and i also write shell scripts to avoid repeatative tasks when and where it is required.

I have also experience of writing yaml files for k8s deployment,services and other related configurations, also i have hands-on on the writing terraform .tf files to automate the infra.

Apart from these i worked on the ad-hoc requests via email in case of priority. we have sprint based working culture where there's a meeting with the team manager weekly or 15 days.
We do have daily DSU's(Daily standup meetings) to get the status update or feedback on tasks.

So, these are my brief intro and my day to day activities. 